Transitioning from Bootstrap to Semantic-UI React (#3514)
section-engineering-education/engineering-education: content/articles/transitioning-from-bootstrap-to-semantic-ui-react/index.md

Bootstrap, however popular and widely used has some flaws and limitations and we will discuss each of them.

1.  Bootstrap Icon package is inferior to other modern design libraries, e.g. Semantic-UI react.
2.  Bootstrap elements and components are generic and easily recognizable thereby producing similar websites.
3.  Bootstrap `ClassName` are complicated and difficult to remember
4.  Element Customization is difficult in Bootstrap compared to others.

### Part 2: Setting Up Semantic-UI in ReactJS

In the first part of this article we discussed the concept of using bootstrap in a react application, we also looked at the limitations and design flaws in bootstrap. The second part of the article will focus on the following

- Getting Started with Semantic-UI React
- Creating a sample web page with Semantic-UI elements
- Customization of elements in semantic-UI
- Modern features and Advancements offered by Semantic-UI
- Why you should pick Semantic-UI React

#### Getting started with Semantic-UI React

Semantic-UI is a modern web design and styling framework. It provides efficient and customizable elements such as

1. Avatars
2. Modals
3. Popups
4. Cards and Icons, etc.

>    Using semantic-UI in your `React` application is simple. But for absolute beginners we will go through the steps to get you familiar with the usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using semantic-UI in your `React` application is simple. But for absolute beginners,  we will go through the steps to get you familiar with the usage.
```

#### Installing Semantic-UI package to your Project

The easiest way of installing the package as a dependency to your `React` application is by running the following command:
npm

```bash
npm install semantic-ui-react
```

For yarn users

```bash
Yarn add semantic-ui-react
```

Once the installation is completed you should be able to use `semantic-ui-react` in your `react` project.

#### Building a Sample Page with Semantic-UI React

We now have access to the library and we will use it to create a sample page. The page will contain the following elements

- Navbar
- Avatar
- Header Texts
- Popup
- Button and Input Fields
- Card

> To achieve this, we will create two files `Navbar.js` and `Body.js` thereafter we will import the above elements and add it to our web page. be sure to create the files in your `src` directory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve this, we will create two files `Navbar.js` and `Body.js`.  Afterwards,  we will import the above elements and add them  to our web page. Be sure to create the files in your `src` directory.
```

            />
          }
        >
          <Modal.Content image>
            <Image size="massive" src="https://images.pexels.com/photos/4300986/pexels-photo-4300986.jpeg?auto=compress&cs=tinysrgb&dpr=2&h=650&w=940" wrapped />
          </Modal.Content>
        </Modal>
      </Card.Content>
      <Card.Content extra>
        <Popup
          content="Comment"
          trigger={
            <Button
              color="teal"
              basic
              content="Comment"
              icon="comments"

            />
          }
        />
      </Card.Content>
    </Card>
  );
}
```

#### step 3: Main Page Component:

The main page will enable both the `Navbar` and `Body` components to be displayed on the web page. To achieve this, we open our `app.js` file and import both components as illustrated below.

```JavaScript
import React from 'react';
import Navbar from '/Navbar;
import Body from '/Body;

Function App(){

    return (
      <div className="App">
        <Navbar />
        <Body />
      </div>
    );
}
export default App;
```

#### Customizing Elements in Semantic-UI React

> Semantic-UI components and elements are designed with default values in color, size, orientation and layout. with the aid a `CSS` file you can customize each Semantic-UI element to your desired specifications. Below is an example of element customization using CSS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semantic-UI components and elements are designed with default values in color, size, orientation, and layout. With the aid of a `CSS`  file, you can customize each Semantic-UI element to your desired specifications. Below is an example of element customization using CSS.
```

            </Card.Description>
          </Card.Content>
        </Card>
      </a>
    </div>
  );
}

export default Demo;
```

From the `demo.js` above, each element is assigned a `className` that will eventually be targeted and customized in our `demo.css` file. The customization is illustrated below:

```CSS
.app-demo{
 margin-top: 20px
}
.demo-img {
  width: 100% !important;
  max-height: 70vh !important;
  overflow: hidden;
}
.post-card {
  margin: auto !important;
  width: 100% !important;
  background: #ecf3ff;
  height: fit-content !important;
  border-radius: 10px !important;
  padding-top: 10px !important;
}
.card {
  margin: 0 !important;
}

```

Note that the `!important` flag is used to override the default values of the `Semantic-UI` element.

#### Modern features of Semantic-UI

The Semantic-UI package comes with numerous modern features. A few of which includes the following

1. Simplified Error handling and debugging
2. High level theming variables
3. Advanced elements such as Accordions, Dividers, Segments, Menu, etc.
4. Easy to use APIs
5. Customizable layouts and orientation.

#### Why you should Choose Semantic-UI React

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Every developer wants the easiest and most efficient way of solving problems. I will share a few reasons why I think you should consider Semantic-UI React in your next project. They include the following:

1. Semantic-UI design Library is light-weight and easy to use: meaning it does not increase the package size of your project.
2. Semantic-UI contains hundreds of customizable icons: all you have to do is import whichever icon into your project.
3. Semantic-UI has high efficiency and compilation rate.
4. Semantic-UI is easy to use and understand.
5. Semantic-UI is used by numerous tech companies, such as Snapchat, Google Cloud Partners etc.

### Conclusion

> We have compared both Bootstrap and Semantic-UI design library in this article. The verdict is out and is up to you to decide which one best suit your web needs, but I strongly recommend Semantic-UI. I hope you find this article helpful in your web development journey.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have compared both Bootstrap and Semantic-UI design libraries in this article. The verdict is out and is up to you to decide which one best suits your web needs, but I strongly recommend Semantic-UI. I hope you find this article helpful in your web development journey.
```
